Feat implement generate bitly url dart (#106)
appwrite/demos-for-functions: dart/feat-implement-generate-bitly-url-dart/README.md

# 🔗 Shorten Long Link

> A dart Cloud Function for generating a bitly short link from a passed long url link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dart Cloud Function for generating a bitly short link from a given url.
```

## Dart AW Setup

> To setup dart cloud function, follow this excellent tutorial [on dev here](https://dev.to/appwrite/learn-how-to-create-and-run-appwrite-functions-with-dart-5668)

Reviewer 2: `To setup dart cloud function, follow [this excellent tutorial on Dev.to](https://dev.to/appwrite/learn-how-to-create-and-run-appwrite-functions-with-dart-5668)

Created using `dart-2.1.3`

> <br>
> <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## 🚀 Result
Here is our very own shortened appwrite generated link
![result](shots/result.png)
<br>
![result log](shots/result-log.png)
<br>
![re](shots/execute.png)
<br>
<br>

## 📝 Environment Variables
Go to Settings tab of your Cloud Function. Add the following environment variables.
****
* **BITLY_TOKEN** -  API Key for Bitly

If you are testing from AW console, provide this environment variable

> * **LONG_URL** - example long url to shorten

Reviewer 2: Do we use this `LONG_URL` in the code? I cannot find it.

Reviewer: We don't need this.

<br>
![bitly.png](shots/console.png)
<br>
<br>

> You can use both the `APPWRITE_FUNCTION_DATA` or `APPWRITE_FUNCTION_EVENT_DATA` default environment variables too depending on your use-case.<br>

Reviewer 2: Can you use `APPWRITE_FUNCTION_EVENT_DATA`? I cant see it in the code. It would be awesome to implement this, tho... Just get both variables, check which one exists and use it. Please check if this would be possible.

Reviewer: `APPWRITE_FUNCTION_EVENT_DATA` is depricated.

Consider the scenarios (more info [on aw docs, here](https://appwrite.io/docs/functions#enviromentVariables)):
<br>
<br>

##  `APPWRITE_FUNCTION_DATA`
This variable can be set only when triggering a function using the SDK or HTTP API and the Appwrite Dashboard. <br>

<br>
If using this from appwrite console, paste this example code on the popup<br>

```json

> {

Reviewer: Let's use simple string instead.

<br>
Once registered, login and go on your dashboard, from there click your account name on the top right corner and go to `settings`
<br>
Under `settings`, scroll to `Developer settings` and click on `API`
<br>
Under this tab, notice the `Access token` menu, enter your account password you used to login / register and client `Generate token`
<br>
After a success, copy the token and paste on your AW console variables as `BITLY_TOKEN`
<br>
![bitly.png](shots/bitly.png)
<br>
<br>

## 🚀 Building and Packaging

To package this as a cloud function, follow these steps.

```bash
$ cd demos-for-functions/dart/feat-implement-generate-bitly-url-dart

$ export PUB_CACHE=.appwrite/
$ dart pub get
```

* Ensure that your folder structure looks like this 
```
.
├── main.dart
├── .appwrite/
├── pubspec.lock
└── pubspec.yaml
```

* Create a tarfile

```bash
$ cd ..
$ tar -zcvf bitly_url_shortener.tar.gz feat-implement-generate-bitly-url-dart
```

* Navigate to the Overview Tab of your Cloud Function > Deploy Tag
* Input the command that will run your function (in this case `dart main.dart`) as your entrypoint command
* Upload your tarfile 
* Click 'Activate'

## 🎯 Trigger

> You can use any event here to enable automatic configuring of this cloud function, just make sure that the payload contains the `url` field so that the function will pick it up as the field containing the long url to shorten

Reviewer: For this we don't need the trigger. Our triggers don't support custom field, so this will not be possible.
